Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Ok, so the first concept was syntax, that we learned,
but while we were covering syntax,
you got a preview before of what we're going
to talk about in this lecture, which is variables.
Now, you remember the thing we did in the last lecture,
which is that we wrote out "answer equals"
and we did it in so many different ways.
What I'm doing when I say "answer" is I'm creating what's called a variable.
So if I were to type in answer equals one, what do you think I'm doing?
Well, what I'm doing is I'm associating the number 1 with the word "answer."
Now, why would I want to do this?
Well, in order for sites to be dynamic,
you have to do this, you have to use variables.
I like to think of variables just as stored information
that you can then pass on later on in your program,
so that you can manipulate them and use them.
There's probably a better, more technically correct way
of thinking about it, but that's the way I like to.
So, to give you an example, all right, so let's look at this.
So we'll say A equals 1.
Ok, so we associate 1 with A.
Now, what do you think if I said B equals 2?
Well, now we have two variables in our programming.
A equals 1, B equals 2.
Now what do you think would happen if I said A plus B equals C?
You can take a wild guess, but what's
probably going to end up happening
is that C is going to equal what? It's going to equal 3 most likely.
I don't even have to tell the system to do that.
What I could just do is just tell it to display C,
and what it would end up displaying over here is 3.
I mean, that's the really, really basic version of that.
Let's imagine I was making an app that
needed to let someone, let's say, order food.
Kind of like a GrubHub, or a DoorDash,
or any of those ones, like PostMates now.
One of the things I would have to do is give them, say,
like the total of their meal,
and based on that total they have to calculate the tip.
So if I were to do this, I might write something like,
and this is not going to be 100% correct, but it's to get the point across.
Let's say that the burrito is worth $8.
On our menu, chips are worth $2.
Great. Now, then I would say, maybe the
subtotal of what you were going to pay,
so we'll create a thing called a subtotal,
might be burrito plus chips.
Great, now I have the subtotal.
But then, how exactly do I calculate the tip?
Well, the tip, what we'll say is, let's create a new variable called "tip,"
and "tip" will be 0.15.
So if I wanted to calculate the actual total that you'd pay,
can you guess how I would do this?
Let's create a new variable called the "total,"
and then what I could do is I could say subtotal times the tip,
now that would give us how much they need to pay in tip,
but to make it a total, then I have to add in the subtotal again.
So what I could do is just say, plus subtotal again, I could do that,
because the order of operations in math would just say,
run this, then add this, but for the sake of our sanity,
to make this prettier, we could actually use parentheses.
It's the same thing as running a calculation on your calculator.
Ok, so I just set up a bunch of variables to list out what
this person potentially could have bought.
So this is a decent example of why we might use variables.
So I can set the value of pretty much anything on the menu
by creating essentially menu items right here.
You know, guac might be, we can say it's $1.
And I could do this pretty much all day long.
So then, on the front page, when someone selects something,
the system already has a value for that object,
so it knows what value to associate with it.
Now, why do I have to do it like this?
Well, if I didn't have variables, let's imagine a world where
I couldn't save this information like I just did,
I would have to require the person filling out the page
to almost write in the price every single time.
So I would have to display the price,
and then have them actually input it for me.
The alternative option you could do is
what's called hardcoding, where I could just
make the page, and no matter what, whenever you pick burritos and chips,
it just adds them together based on their value and not as a variable.
That's fine, but what happens if the next person comes and buys
burritos, chips, and guac, and the system is
hardcoded to only calculate burritos and chips?
It becomes a problem.
The other problem that happens is,
you know, if I'm making an ordering website, chances are
I'm going to use the value of the burrito multiple times.
So if I'm selecting my objects, I will see a price, and so
the system needs to know to display the price of the burrito.
The next page, I might see my cart, and
my cart will also display the price of the burrito.
In the next couple of pages, I'll probably see that over and over again.
So if I wanted to change the price, as restaurants frequently do,
how annoying would it be to have to go into the code every single time
and change every single page where it possibly could have shown up.
Instead, I can just go back to the original page,
change the value of the variable to add a dollar, and then
the pages will just essentially see burrito, they'll display burrito,
and the system will know that that is $9.
So voila. Don't overthink that one.
Variables are used in every single programming language
and they actually have a lot of use, they're
really standard, you have to use them.
Another more extreme example of saving variables so they can change
across pages, let's say we are using Facebook,
and let's say on Facebook, I wanted to change my name.
So if I actually went to my Facebook, my name displays right here.
See, there is my name, there is my name, everything I post is my name,
if this pops up, it has my name.
If I wanted to change that name, if we weren't using variables, well,
then every single page associated with me
would have to be then manually updated,
whereas if it's just a variable, I can just change my name equals Evan Kimbrell,
and I could just change it to whatever I want, Mustache McGee, and then
Mustache McGee would display automatically throughout the system,
all over here, because it's not writing Evan Kimbrell,
it's writing whatever the variable is that stores my name.
Ok, so, sweet. We now know how to calculate the total price
of a meal at Chipotle, this is really essential learning.
Next concept up, we're going to talk about printing.
Ok, see you then!